Update documentation and dev blog post with removal of STATE_CLASS_TOTAL and SensorEntity.last_reset (#1028)
home-assistant/developers.home-assistant: blog/2021-08-16-state_class_total.md

title: "New sensor state classes: total and total_increasing"
---

A new state class, `STATE_CLASS_TOTAL_INCREASING` has been added. In addition, the
`last_reset` attribute is removed from `SensorEntity`. The driver for the changes is to
make it easier to integrate with devices, like utility meters.

### State classes

There are 2 defined state classes:

> - `STATE_CLASS_MEASUREMENT`, the state represents a measurement in present time, for 

Reviewer: Right now it's the name of the constant that holds the value. Should this be the value itself?

Author: Fixed

   example a temperature, electric power, the value of a stock portfolio, etc. For
   supported sensors, statistics of hourly min, max and average sensor readings or of
   the accumulated growth or decline of the sensor's value since it was first added is
   updated hourly.
- `STATE_CLASS_TOTAL_INCREASING`, a monotonically increasing total, e.g. an amount of
   consumed gas, water or energy. When supported, the accumulated growth of the sensor's
   value since it was first added is updated hourly.

#### `STATE_CLASS_TOTAL_INCREASING`

For sensors with state_class `STATE_CLASS_TOTAL_INCREASING`, a decreasing value is
interpreted as the start of a new meter cycle or the replacement of the meter. It is
important that the integration ensures that the value cannot erroneously decrease in 
the case of calculating a value from a sensor with measurement noise present. This state

> class is useful for gas meters, electricity meters, water meters etc. The value when the
> sensor reading decreases will not be used as zero-point when calculating `sum` statistics,
> instead the zero-point will be set to 0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
class is useful for gas meters, electricity meters, water meters etc. When a reset is detected, we assume it was reset to 0 and that if the new value is bigger than 0 it's
interpreted as growth for the new cycle.
```

| :--------------------- | -----: | ---: |
|   2021-08-01T13:00:00  |  1000  |   0  |
|   2021-08-01T14:00:00  |  1010  |  10  |
|   2021-08-01T15:00:00  |     5  |  15  |

> |   2021-08-01T16:00:00  |    10  |  20  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|   2021-08-01T16:00:00  |    10  |  20  |

This state class used to be represented by state class `measurement` in combination with a `last_reset` value. This approach has been deprecated and will be interpreted as a `total_increasing` state class instead with an automatic last reset.
```

Author: I slightly tweaked the suggestion before committing it.
